# ASL-DevicePrototype
Includes designs, circuit diagrams, signal processing code, final report, laboratory notebook


We developed design skills to produce wearable american sign language device where the main concept was to have ring and fingernail devices emit and record IR waveform emissions with specific calculated frequency. We applied electrical engineering knowledge to create IR LED data acquistion module, band pass filter, and IR wave generatitng module using chips, circuitry electronics, measurement and power tools (e.g. oscilloscope, multimeter, power supply). We presented obtained data from oscilloscope where it showed how data was produced with specific frequency, data was collected using data acquisition module, and data was filtered using bandpass filtering. We had specific functitonal specifications such as voltage limit, IR LED wavelength, and frequency generated by the IR LED emitting circuit. We researched and practiced safety and sustainability standards. We remained under the project budget, utilized Gannt and PERT charts for project management. I worked with NI Multisim to create and test circuit diagrams of IR wave generating circuit, data acquisition module, and filtering module online before creating them in the lab. We created PCB circuit diagrams for the above mentioned IR wave generating circuit, IR data detection and acquisition module. We simulated, tested, troubleshot, and tried alternative approaches for the three modules were creating using Falstad, NI Multisim, and TI online simulation tool. We soldered the circuit diagrams as SMD models and perforated board model after testing them on breadboards. The testing of the systems included having IR wave generating circuit emit IR waves in specific frequency using 5 V power input. Next, IR data acquisition module recorded IR waves with specific frequency and graphed data on oscilloscope where captured frequency and voltage was observed. Active bandpass filtering module received acquired IR data, filtered outt optical noise, and returned a filtered signal where frequency and voltage was analyzeed. I learned team and project management, testing and troubleshooting electrical prototypes, regulations and standards, presenting data and biweekly updates, finding alternative solutions, designing parts on SolidWorks, soldering, PCB soldering using SMD models, using NI Multisim for designing and testing circuit diagrams, etc.

Summary: Designed and built a wearable American Sign Language device prototype that leveraged infrared (IR) waveforms from ring and fingernail sensors with specific frequency. Used NI Multisim, SolidWorks, SMD Models. 
